.\" This is the manual page for dvdcopy
.\"
.\" Copyright 2013 by Vincent Fourmond
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details (in the COPYING file).
.\"
.TH DVDCOPY 1 "16" "" "Error-resistant DVD to disk copier"


.SH NAME
dvdcopy \- error-resistant DVD to disk copier

.SH SYNOPSIS

First copy:

.B dvdcopy 
.I [options]
.I /dev/dvd target-directory

Second pass to try to copy bad sectors that were missing in the first pass:

.B dvdcopy 
.I [options]
.I --second-pass
.I /dev/dvd target-directory
.I arguments

List the contents of the DVD rather than copying it:

.B dvdcopy 
.I --list
.I /dev/dvd


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B dvdcopy
copies the contents of a DVD device (typically
.I /dev/dvd\fR,
or
.I /dev/dvd2\fR, 
etc) to a directory. It uses
.I libdvdread
who in turn may make use of
.I libdvdcss
that can decode DVDs protected with the content scrambling protection
(ie most of the ones you can ever get).

.B dvdcopy\fR\'s
main features is its capacity to recover from read errors. It has been
designed and enriched to cope with DVDs borrowed from public
libraries, that in general are so damaged that a direct read with 
.B xine\fR(1)
or
.B vlc\fR(1)
fails.

In the first run, 
.B dvdcopy
just copies the sectors it has no difficulty to read, and writes out a
list of bad sectors to the 
.I target-directory.bad
file (if that file is missing, then everything went fine !). 

.B Note: 
Make sure you wait until the end of the copy, else
.I --second-pass 
will not help you ! However, you can run the first run again (first
command above), and
.B dvdcopy
will be smart enough to read only the parts of the files that were not
read yet.

To try reading these bad sectors, clean up the DVD the best you can,
and run 
.B dvdcopy
with the 
.I --second-pass 
option (as above). With a bit of luck, you'll get a bit (or a lot)
more sectors read this time. Try using a different drive if you have,
it may help. The bad sectors file is updated during the second pass,
so if there are still bad sectors, try reading again and again, until
there are no bad sectors left (or you give up because the disc is too
scratched anyway !).


.SH OPTIONS


.TP 8
.B -s\fR, \fB --second-pass
runs a second try, reading only the sectors that were unsucessfully
read in the first pass (and stored in the 
.I target-directory.bad
plain text file). Others arguments must be the same as in the first
pass. The bad sectors file is update.

.TP
.B -e\fR, \fB --eject
attempts to eject the DVD drive after the copy.


.TP 
.B -l\fR, \fB --list
instead of copying the DVD, just lists the files present on it that 
.B dvdcopy
would copy.

.TP 
.B -b\fR, \fB --bad-sectors \fIfile
uses 
.I file
as the bad sector file (both for input and output).


.SH FEATURES

Many DVD manufacturers now use several times the same file on a DVD to
make the total file size much larger than the media size (I've seen
cases reaching over 60 GB on a 8GB disk!). 
.B dvdcopy
is smart enough to detect that and will just make hardlinks in the
target directory.

As most copy protection techniques additional to the CSS system are
based on inserting bad sectors here and there, 
.B dvdcopy
is actually quite apt at defeating them. So far, the only DVDs that
ever resisted me are not copy-protected ones, but just badly damaged
ones !

.SH WHY READ TO A DIRECTORY ?

Most programs read DVD into an iso image file. I find reading to a
directory is simpler. Most DVD player programs have no difficulty
opening directories containing DVDs. As a exemple, opening the
.I MyMovie
DVD directory in the current directory with 
.B xine\fR(1)
is just a matter of running:

.TP 4
.I xine dvd://`pwd`/MyMovie


.SH AUTHOR

.B dvdcopy
was written by Vincent Fourmond.

.SH BUGS
